
# Test Rapid Pulse

------

## Objective:
Test Rapid Pulse is pytest enabled python framework to automate UI and APIs.
The _pytest_ framework makes it easy to write small, readable tests, and can scale to support complex functional testing
for applications and libraries.

## Dependencies:
To setup _TestRapidPulse_ in your local system, your system must be equipped with Python3.
To display the test results your system must install Allure. 

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

The _requirement.txt_ file contains Selenium, Pytest, Requests, and Allure and etc dependencies. 

The _requirements.txt_ file is located in the root of the repository.


## Running Tests
### Test Everything
```
pytest
```
Reports can also be generated by adding the `--alluredir` switch.

```
pytest --alluredir report/allure_raw
```
### GUI Test with Selenium:
Selenium is free (Open-Source) automated testing framework to automate GUI and Device Applications. It supports multiple language bindings to write test scripts. The _TestRapidPulse_ framework uses Selenium Python language binding to write test.

Selenium uses language bindings to communicate with real browsers over HTTP via Browsers drivers. So, if you want to test your application on Firefox browser then download Selenium Firefox Driver from here:
* Firefox: https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases
* Chrome: https://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads

**Note:** Browser version and driver version must be similar to launch the application.

The downloaded driver must be placed in your PATH, i.e. `/usr/local/bin` on Mac. Selenium always look for driver in this location.

TestRapidPulse Selenium GUI test follows Page Object Model design model to design tests.

```
pytest tests/test_regression_tests.py --alluredir report/allure_raw
```

To share _@pytest.fixture_ among multiple test files, we should use _conftest.py_. Usually, a method is marked as a fixture by marking it as @pytest.fixture. A test method can use a fixture by mentioning the fixture name as an input parameter.
These files are located in the path `/test`.

### API Test with Requests module:

The _requests_ module is a python module which helps to send API requests to API server. API Automation is also following pytest test framework to design tests.

We can mark any test in pytest to group any tests using _@pytest.mark.[Group_Name]_.

We can execute any mark test by running below command:
```
pytest apitest/test_apitests.py -m customers --alluredir report/allure_raw
```
`-m` parameter uses to define any marked group.

Available groups are:
* customers
* zones
* workspaces
* workflows

## Test Reporting with Allure

Install Allure by running below command (for macOS):
```
brew install allure
```

Run below command to show results in Allure:
```
allure serve report/allure_raw
```

Write test method and you can use any of allure annotations to provide additional information for test reporting. For reference see `tests/test_regression_tests.py` class.

#### References:
#### Selenium Drivers
https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases
https://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads
https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/tools/webdriver/

#### Pytest
https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.0.x/

#### Selenium
https://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/

#### Allure
https://docs.qameta.io/allure/

